large impression has enabled him to issue the present greatly
although in the course of many generations, they have become greatly
during, at least, a great part of the year.
openings should face the south, as this secures a greater degree of
crooked (a circumstance which greatly injures their appearance,
habitation is very great; these latter never becoming in good
There is, perhaps, no subject on which a greater diversity of opinion
subject at any great length. Those who desire the facts on which
they are eaten with great avidity, and in this state furnish one
hundred; its capability of putting on flesh is not greater than that
is commonly supposed to cause a greatly increased production of eggs,
worms, snails and insects that they obtain naturally when unconfined;
greater number of diseases that occur in fowls arise from improper
without jumping down upon them, otherwise there is great risk of
back, at the great risk of breaking the eggs, whereas, if lifted off
sitting, separates the feathers to so great an extent, that the eggs,
if they are not in too great number, are in contact with the naked
where the eggs are small and the hens large, a greater number may be
especially where poultry are kept in a confined situation, for if
greater length of time. In addition to food and water the hens should
gizzard. A little chopped onion, or, still better, some finely shred
are in a confined situation, and will be found far superior to boiled
(the best of all possible food), the chicken are therefore confined
recover the effects of her confinement in sitting as when she is
persons say they cannot confine their fowls in this manner, as they
cannot rest upon it, they evince a great disinclination to attempt
greater or less degree of stoutness as required, nailed three inches
I have found that this fence is sufficient to confine Dorking,
efficient, and from its great strength and durability it is much more
produced, great delicacy necessarily results; this, for example, is
and finest birds, that alone should be kept for stock, are those
sitters, their large size enabling them to cover a great number of
great recommendations. I have found that the eggs hatch remarkably
with which they are confined by a three feet fence, must not be
following day. The great drawback to Cochins, as farmers’ fowls, is
considerably greater than that consumed by other varieties, and their
does from one of the greatest admirers and most successful rearers
has been that great improvements in their size and good qualities
The great drawback to the value of this most useful breed is in
Dorkings do not bear confinement well, requiring a good range;
To produce the fat fowls, that are seen in greater perfection in
in mind that a fowl cannot be kept in the greatest degree of fatness
colour, burnished with resplendant tints of green, the great
from confinement to a small run; not unfrequently exceedingly good
fan-shaped tail. In colour this breed varies greatly, amongst the
supplying themselves with a great portion of their food. As table
to roup; they also attain to a considerably greater weight and size.
in this respect the gold and silver varieties somewhat differ. I
“Like their golden relations they never sit, and rarely evince the
bounds. They are great enemies to flowers, fruit, vegetables, indeed,
Societies, and I will therefore confine myself to a brief and general
birds, and firstly as to the golden variety; although, with the
the neck hackle in the golden variety, of which I am now speaking,
black fringed with gold; the back, breast, and legs, regularly
the plumage should be a rich red gold or burnt sienna colour. One
great point of beauty also, both in the cocks and hens, is that
great difficulty in breeding the cocks is the tendency they have to
in the markings. In both varieties great distinctness of colour
There is, in addition to the gold and silver spangled, a third
_Pencilled Hamburghs._--This variety is also of two colours, golden
brown in the silver or golden birds respectively. The birds are of a
The spangled Polands, both gold and silver, are rather larger and
matronly habits, enable a greater number to be reared from the same
closely confined, dirty situations, they are very liable to lose
Lice often infest fowls to an extreme degree, and cause a great
it is not easily subdued by medical treatment; great confusion and
the face swell greatly, the fowl becoming blind; from the discharge
a diseased growth. I have found that it may, to a great degree, be
