  Dropping their golden sands.
  No shining, golden sheaves
Dear Madam, with a great invention;
"No doubt," I say; "'Tis very fine,
"Yes, new and fine, and grand," we say,
  And the great clock, time, ticks on apace.
  Discovering wonders, great, perhaps, and true!
I was out promenading one fine summer day,
In these parts, and a fine-looking fellow should see,
Back on its golden hinges
Now, seeing His great wisdom, though I languish,
He was "mamma's own pet, worth his whole weight in gold."
  Of the long-lost golden hours.
  But the Past's are blue, and gold.
  Blue eyes and tresses of gold.
  There are glowing, golden hours.
  From the sunny, golden land.
  Striped here and there with blue and gold.
Far greater than any king am I,
For they said, 'Behold, how great you be!
"Can you boast of deeds as great as mine?"
All threaded with gold and crimson,
  And dies in a golden gleam,
  And the sunshine fell like a golden flame,
  While silence is golden alway.
And lo! when the golden glory
  A tall, slender Maiden, with hair like spun gold.
  Than fine and flowery speech.
Who won the first great battle--
  Gained the first great victory.
  And proved him good, and true, and great.
And dreams away these golden days.
Behind these autumn hours of gold,
Thus, through the golden, hazy weather,
And the idol I worshiped for gold, alway,
  Crushed by great griefs, that seem too hard to bear,
We dressed him in rich robes of finest texture,
Not all the gold and riches we might lavish,
  Not all our gold could save him from the tomb.
So, though the cross be great, and the prize hidden,
A city all gold and crimson--
The golden lights are dying,
  Whether their aims are great or small,
For greater is he, fighting this good fight,
      The autumn, gold and brown,
Oh, rare golden days, in the heart of September;
Away with these sad thoughts! this rare golden weather
  A mass of stranded gold, that mortal eyes
But with the same long, rippling, golden hair
  All in the golden grain,
But the golden harvest is going--
Pain, the musician, the soul-refiner,
For Pain, the musician, the soul-refiner,
And laid on my shoulder her head of gold
Before his "great long tail" was found.
Through the hours of gold that the dead year told,
  With turrets of sapphire and gold,
  And the head with its crown of spun gold;
  It is done, the great drama of life.
The gold-breasted thrush, and the quaker-crowned starling
For he's a fine fellow, and handsome, ahem!)
That droppeth down, like a golden veil
  No task too great for me.
Some mighty sorrow, vague and undefined,
The nameless shadow, vague, and undefined.
But the great, notched wheel of Fortune,
  As fine as fine could be.
  And her gold between us lay.
And the great, notched wheel of Fortune
Fell the great hand of Pain,
  The great hand gave me,
  To the city built of gold.
Marigolds, bachelor-buttons, with clusters of evergreen,
The dream that belongs to youth, golden--complete--sublime,
I woke from the golden dream when I saw _her_ on the breast
  Fell round her, in a golden splendor.
  Of all that golden, shining shower.
  And from the hills, the golden autumn time
  To woodlands, painted gold and brown;
When with fold on fold of red, and gold,
And her hair sweeps down, half gold, half brown,
Some glowing, golden morning
Someday, when the golden glory
  Through tangled curls of gold,
  Gifts of silver and gold,
  Much finer than Kit's, I know,
"It will be a great occasion,
  And all that glitters is gold.
I would gather the amber, the red and gold dyes,
And I'd make you a vail, from the rare golden haze,
