The Project Gutenberg eBook of Lady Lucy's secret;
Title: Lady Lucy's secret;
Author: Lucy Ellen Guernsey
[Illustration: _Lady Lucy's Secret—Frontispiece._
                    _[Lucy Ellen Guernsey]_
I WONDER whether, if you had seen Lady Lucy sitting at her work that
Lady Lucy was young,—only a little past eleven years old,—and small
Lady Lucy learned to be confidential with Cousin Debby, she told her
When Lucy thought of her mother, it was always as sitting down on the
that that was not her mother. Lucy almost thought that she began to
but, as the time wore on, and she could not but see that Lucy disliked
her, she began in her turn to dislike Lucy and the poor child led a
garden, with green alleys and grass-plots, where Lucy would have liked
Lucy would have enjoyed playing on the green, and sailing little boats
into medicines and cordials. Lucy used many times to wish that she had
Poor Lucy could not make hay, or gather primroses in the lanes, or
certain length of time. There was one place in her walk where Lucy was
Lucy did not think so much about her father. She had only seen him
Poor little Lucy! It was a sad, irksome life. It would have been dull
not love the little girl. She envied her because Lucy was rich, and
before her, and she visited it on her little daughter. Lucy could never
that whalebone was not printed upon Lucy's shoulders or arms, nor many
her waiting-woman Hannah, Margery would make feasts for Lady Lucy in
These were Lucy's happy days, when she could sit in a corner of the
of whey to the pigs. It made no difference to Lucy that her aunt always
system of management that Lucy learned to take pleasure in deceiving
because it was the means of bringing about a great change in Lucy's
Lady Langham and return home the next evening. She left Lucy plenty of
Lucy stood demurely at the door and watched the carriage out of sight
let out of a basket, to be sure. But, Lady Lucy, my dear, had you not
were to work all night, Margery!" said Lucy, shaking her head. "And if
mind, Lady Lucy: I will take hold of it when my work is done, and you
aunt," said Margery, when Lucy had rather unwillingly gone to seek her
was very fond of Lucy, and loved to see the child happy for once, as
old-fashioned country dish, than which there are few better—for Lucy's
supper. But Lucy was not destined to the enjoyment of these dainties.
There was Lady Lucy, in the kitchen, actually leaning with both elbows
It was upon Lucy, as usual, that her wrath fell heaviest. The poor
declared that Lucy was the true child of her mother, that foreign woman
mother had been a liar, and worse; and that Lucy was fast following in
As she went on, Lucy, who had seemed stunned at first, lifted up her
"I will not!" returned Lucy, resisting with all her strength. "I will
cruel and unforgiving,—that she visiting on Lucy's head not so much the
Two or three days passed on, and nothing was seen of Lucy. She remained
well. It was just such a time as this with Lady Lucy which drove my
Lucy!"
Lucy's father."
often pitied Lady Lucy, and would willingly have made her acquaintance,
opinion,—which probably is one reason that she will not allow Lady Lucy
Poor Lucy, on her hard bed, had fallen into an uneasy slumber, while
Lucy felt herself drawn into a closer embrace as her father whispered,—
"And will you take me away and let me live with you?" asked Lucy. "Oh,
"Yes, Lucy: you shall go with me this very night. Mistress Burgess will
Interest told her that she had made an enemy of Lucy; that she had
upon her but sheer physical force. Sir James Warden, Lucy's cousin and
guardian, might see fit to remove her at any time; and no doubt Lucy
Lucy. She was the daughter of Lord Stanton's step-mother, and had been
Lucy had never loved her, and she had long since lost even the slight
In this frame of mind she came home, to be met by the news that Lucy's
Then she bade Hannah pack Lady Lucy's clothes and other possessions and
passions over which she exerted no control. Some time after, Lady Lucy
Meantime, Lady Lucy was most warmly received at the parsonage,
stayed a few days with Lucy, and then went abroad once more, leaving
upon Lady Lucy.
She foresaw that Lucy would have formed undesirable and wrong habits
her devotion to Lady Lucy's interests, and she was devotedly attached
accompany Lady Lucy, or to exchange the close housekeeping of the
too, and both Lady Lucy and Anne begged her to do so; but Margery
accounts of her mistress's treatment of Lady Lucy. The maids at the
Grange. Every one in the village knew that Lady Lucy's father had found
Lucy had learned no lessons, nor performed any tasks, as she was
that of lessons Lucy had lately had more than enough; and she wisely
concluded that Lucy's health and spirits were to be cultivated, even at
her own course with Lucy. So, for the first few weeks, Lucy did little
had decided she should begin some lessons again. So Lucy had learned a
"Embroidery, and open-hem, and marking, and fine darning," said Lucy;
Lucy looked scared as soon as she had said the words. Such a speech
but Cousin Debby only smiled. She was glad to see that Lucy was
"I shall like that," said Lucy. "Dolly Burgess used to do things for
Cousin Debby told Lucy was ebony. She set the box on the little table
in the bow-window where Lucy was sitting, and unlocked it by the little
Lucy uttered an exclamation of delight. There were scissors and knives
"When?" asked Lucy.
Lucy slipped her finger into it.
Left to herself, Lucy worked very industriously for half an hour. She
contents. But Lucy was not used to working without being over-looked;
pretty deeply under Lucy's finger-nail. Now, there are few things more
provocative of hasty action than a prick under the nails. Lucy dropped
articles to their places, Lucy peeped out to see what had become of the
there. Lucy could see it plainly, and was just going to step out of the
Hastily Lucy shrank back, and resumed her work, her fingers trembling
"Well, Lucy, how has the work progressed?" asked Cousin Debby, pausing
"Not very well," said Lucy, trying to speak quietly. "I pricked my
Lucy's heart sank deeper still; but she dared not disobey. The best way
Lucy had a pleasant walk, and enjoyed very much seeing the dear little
"You did not tell her that I was making a petticoat for the baby," Lucy
they interrupt their elders by so doing. But, Lucy, I want you always
"What do you mean by a proper spirit?" Lucy ventured to inquire.
"Yes, ma'am," replied Lucy. "I think it is pleasant to understand."
All this time the thought of the thimble was in Lucy's mind, lying
unluckily, Lucy was used to having such concealments and to hiding her
Lucy would much rather have gone home; but she dared not object. She
banks of that very stream by which Lucy had stolen away to feed the
and she told Lucy many interesting tales of their doings and customs.
unlucky thimble and, even as it was, Lucy enjoyed it greatly, as well
gave Lucy a warm welcome, and did their best to entertain her,—showing
almost as playful as a kitten. Lucy looked across the stream into her
"I don't feel sorry for her," said Lucy, under her breath. "I hate her;
Lucy said these words with all energy which showed that she was
"Oh, Lady Lucy, you should not feel so! It is not right. If she has
Lady Lucy, it was not much like hating you when God brought back your
Lucy looked puzzled. "Did he do that? I never thought of that."
"I never thought of that," said Lucy, again. "I thought he was like a
"I can't," returned Lucy. "You don't know how she treated me, Polly."
"I know she was shamefully cruel to you; but, Lady Lucy," added Polly,
"It don't seem as if I could," said Lucy; and she looked again at
"But, Lady Lucy, what will become of you when you die, if you go on
Lucy thought of the thimble lying under the aloe-leaf on the terrace.
and Lady Lucy must eat curds and cream and apricots and seed-cake and
Anne hurried Lucy off to bed, dosing her with warm gruel, lest she
The next morning, before her cousin was dressed, Lucy ran down-stairs
"WHAT are you doing with the box, Lucy, my dear?" asked Cousin Debby,
"I—I was looking to see whether I put my thimble away." Lucy had given
think of any thing being the matter, except that Lucy had been in doubt
"I could not be sure. I did not remember," said Lucy, stammering more
Deborah, sitting down, and taking Lucy on her knee. "Lucy, my child, I
Lucy did not answer.
said poor Lucy, who was so used to being blamed, whatever she did, that
As Lucy went back to her room, she was conscious of a new feeling in
"She would box my ears, I suppose," said Lucy: "so I am very glad she
more that she is so good to you. But I can tell you, Lady Lucy, she
a lie: so you must be careful, Lady Lucy. But, goodness gracious me,
"Oh, Anne, I have done such a dreadful thing!" said poor Lucy. "And I
Lucy related the story, with many injunctions not to tell.
"Then, what shall I do?" asked Lucy, in a despairing tone. "As soon as
"Anne had to sew a new tucker in my bodice," said Lucy.
It was rather hard for Lucy to bring her mind to the task, but she did
"Do you know what that means, Lucy?"
Lucy had never been much accustomed to think about what she read, and
"By wanting to do what is wrong, I suppose," replied Lucy, after some
Lucy. She had heard enough of God before,—and more than enough; for
So Lucy resolved; but, somehow, the resolution did not seem to afford
Then came the sewing; and Lucy's heart sank as Cousin Debby opened the
little petticoat. "You have done this very neatly, Lucy,—as well as I
Lucy did not feel so very grateful at that moment; but she agreed to
herself in darning some beautiful old lace. She told Lucy this lace
In spite of her trouble of mind, Lucy could not help being interested
"Where are you going, Cousin Deborah?" Lucy ventured to ask, as she saw
Lucy was glad to hear that her cousin was going to her room. It was
Lucy resolved that she would improve the opportunity and spend the
when Lucy came down to dinner.
replied Lucy, in a low voice.
"You are quite sure you have not been at the gooseberry-bushes, Lucy?"
"Yes, ma'am. I have not been near them." Lucy was telling the truth
hour. It was not quite noon when Cousin Debby and Lucy sat down to
Lucy had all her life been limited and scrimped as to her food. Aunt
always some sort of meat for dinner; but of this Lucy seldom got more
But Cousin Debby had very different notions. She helped Lucy liberally
appetite. On the contrary, she smiled to see Lucy's plate emptied the
"Think, Lucy, who it is that has given you all these good things," said
As Lucy stood up and repeated her "grace after meat," a good old custom
Often had Lucy been required to say those words when the whole
"Don't you feel well, Cousin Deborah?" asked Lucy.
"Are you really old, Cousin Debby?" asked Lucy, timidly.
those times," Lucy ventured to say. "It is so much nicer than reading
"It was not a compliment," said Lucy. "It was true."
"Compliments may be true as well as false, Lucy. But I will make a
"Well," said Lucy, with great satisfaction. "What shall I do?"
"I shall like that," said Lucy. "It is so much nicer to think that I
"I agree with you, Lucy. But you must be faithful in fulfilling your
The stocking was soon set up, and Lucy worked for an hour without once
"How good you are, Cousin Debby!" exclaimed Lucy. "You just seem to let
And Lucy threw her arms round her cousin's neck and kissed her
But, Lucy," she added, seriously, detaining the little girl a moment,
said Lucy to Anne.
Lucy was mounted on her good, patient little donkey, and, with Anne at
stretched the park; and Lucy could see the deer resting in the fern, or
the air was full of pleasant sounds and scents; and everywhere Lucy's
the whole world," repeated Lucy. "Don't you think so, Anne?"
"Why, no," said Lucy, considering. "Oh, yes: I do, indeed," she added,
"I am sure it was very good in you, Anne," said Lucy. "I shall never
"An impostor?" said Lucy.
Lucy displayed her treasures, and had the pleasure of seeing one of the
much Mrs. Corbet does for her. Come, Lady Lucy; we must be on our way,
"Gipsies?" asked Lucy, looking a little scared.
"Don't you be scared, Lady Lucy," said Anne. "They won't meddle with
"Anne," said Lucy, after they had gone a little way, "do you suppose
catch sight of Lucy than up they all jumped and ran towards her and
[Illustration: _Lady Lucy's Secret._
Lady Lucy and Anne looked at each other.
Lucy and Anne again exchanged glances of awe and wonder,—both of them
And Lucy half whispered, "Do you suppose she could tell about the
Lucy had lost something of that sort.
By this time Lady Lucy and Anne were prepared to believe any nonsense
And Lucy whispered, "Ask her about the thimble."
by the frown and glance of the old woman, Lucy tremblingly promised all
Lucy, however, was not so well satisfied. She knew instinctively that
These lines were not written in Lady Lucy's day, or she might have
then, if she did not? Lucy shuddered. She was timid by nature, and
have more sense than to be influenced as Lucy was. And yet I am not
But Lucy had never been taught any better: indeed, what teaching she
You may easily see how Lady Lucy was prepared to fall into the snare
she met Lucy in the hall. "I should not wonder if Mrs. Corbet had news
Lucy would have found it hard to say whether she were most alarmed or
which removed some, at least, of Lucy's fears. "See, here is a treasure
"Really for me, Cousin Debby?" asked Lucy, looking at the direction,
"Just the way," thought Lucy. "She always thinks of what I shall
Lucy broke the seal of the letter neatly, as Cousin Deborah showed her
"You must take pains to learn, Lucy. I have some very pretty letters,
desire that you, Lucy, will forgive her for the wrongs she has done
Lucy listened to this letter with quiet tears rolling down her face and
"Now, Lucy, how shall we manage to convey your father's message to Aunt
"Oh, Cousin Deborah, I dare not!" said Lucy, turning pale. "I dare not
Cousin Deborah put her arm round Lucy, and felt that she was trembling
dreadful to her. She forbore to urge Lucy any further.
"Suppose, then, Lucy, you copy this message of your father's in your
"Do you suppose there has been a battle, Cousin Deborah?" asked Lucy.
"Then perhaps my papa may be dead already," said Lucy. "Oh, Cousin
Deborah, suppose I should be an orphan even now!" And Lucy burst into
"My dearest child," said Cousin Deborah, taking Lucy upon her lap, and
what may have happened; but, Lucy, you must try to remember that God is
"But God will not love me, because I am a naughty girl," sobbed Lucy.
"Yes, Cousin Debby," whispered Lucy, hiding her face on her cousin's
"Now, I want to talk to you about something else, Lucy," said Cousin
"Yes, Cousin Debby," murmured Lucy, again.
not here to watch you. I trust you, Lucy."
"When shall you go, Cousin Deborah?" asked Lucy, feeling—oh, so small
Anne was a little surprised, the next morning, to see Lady Lucy, after
the side of her lesson-book. She had expected to see Lucy take the
Lucy. "Cousin Deborah said she trusted me to be a good girl; and I am
"Not a word," replied Lucy. "It seems as though she must have missed
tale, effectually diverting Lucy's mind from her practising, and making
"I don't know I think it does, sometimes," said Lucy. "But, anyhow, I
"That was different," replied Lucy. "I had told her more than one lie
meet the gipsy, Lucy and Anne were at the spring. The woman was there
to Lucy. "Well for you that you were no later. Have you brought what I
Lucy trembled as she drew from her pocket a small, gold-handled
go through various mystical ceremonies, while Lucy and Anne looked on
"I must not,—I dare not," exclaimed Lucy, in great distress.
another word, she turned her back upon Lucy and Anne, and stalked off
Lucy stood looking at the spring, watching the tiny stream as it
dozing during the whole interview, pushed his head over Lucy's shoulder.
"We will go home," said Lucy, lifting her eyes from the spring at last;
Lucy looked up. "It is the carrion crow. Don't you see him up on the
have gone on talking about the corby; but Lucy stopped her.
"Heyday, whom have we here? My little Lady Lucy, as I am alive! And
Polly and Dulcie. Meantime, Lady Lucy, I would advise you to take your
"Do you not think, then, that they can tell where it is?" Lucy gathered
He was silent for a few moments, and then asked Lucy if she had heard
Lucy told him she had just received a letter, and repeated what her
"Dr. Burgess," said Lucy, presently, in a low voice, and raising her
"My father says," continued Lucy, "that I must ask God for the guidance
In plain and well-chosen words, Dr. Burgess explained to Lucy the
"How can I tell when I have received it?" asked Lucy.
"I think I do," replied Lucy. "Thank you, sir!"
think," said Lucy. "I did not think there were such good people in the
Lucy took in her own little fingers the broad hand the doctor laid upon
"I am going up to my room, Anne," said Lucy, as she entered the door.
"What has got into that child?" said Anne to herself, gazing after Lucy
When Anne went up to call Lady Lucy to supper, she found her reading
Afterwards Cousin Deborah told Lucy the outline of her mother's story.
his bride, and dearly did Lucy love it for her mother's sake. For her
Lucy looked up from her book as Anne entered the room. She had been
"How loud the sea roars!" said Lucy. "I haven't heard it so loud since
already! Mercy on me, Lady Lucy! What shall we do if there is a
"Wait till it is over, I suppose," said Lucy, "and pray that we may be
"Dr. Burgess is not afraid of her, you see," said Lucy. "He called her
"I fear she will be very angry, but I cannot help that," replied Lucy.
me!'" repeated Lucy. "Cousin Deborah said that meant that if we kept
"Well," continued Lucy, "then came the letter from my dear father, in
to pray to God for him. I do want to pray for him," said Lucy, with a
Lucy: "and the French soldiers will not wait for me to grow up, to
Anne assented; and Lady Lucy repeated the ninety-first psalm.
Long before it was finished, Anne was sound asleep. And Lucy,
window-seat. Lucy slipped out of bed and went to the window. Every
Thankful tears rose to Lucy's eyes, and she repeated the words of her
head and knocked his tail against the floor as Lucy opened the door.
"You dear, faithful, old dog," said Lucy, bending over him and patting
Goodman lazily put up his tawny muzzle and licked Lucy's face, as if
ratifying this treaty on his own part. And Lucy, feeling her heart
"Dear me, Lady Lucy, are you up already?" asked Anne, sleepily. "I am
"It is six o'clock and a beautiful morning," replied Lucy, adding
All that day Lucy kept herself closely within the limits of the house
trust, stalking up and down the terrace at Lucy's side, sitting at her
When Lucy went to bed, Goodman still accompanied her, and settled
There was another thunder-storm in the night, but Lucy only roused
"Will Mattison has come home," was the news which met Lucy, as she came
"Has not my cousin come, then?" asked Lucy, her heart beating fast.
that he might apprise Lady Lucy of the cause of her delay.
see I have one guard already," added Lucy, patting the head of the old
Lucy ate her breakfast with old Goodman sitting at her elbow
Lucy looked up.
glittering eyes fixed upon Lucy's face.
For the moment, Lucy's fears overmastered her new-found faith and
"I will not!" returned Lucy, finding her voice and her courage all at
"Oh, Will Mattison, I am so glad you are come!" exclaimed Lucy,
don'tee now," continued the good old man, as Lucy's tears still fell
"WHAT! Tears upon your cheeks, my Lucy," said Mrs. Corbet, as she
dismounted from her horse and bent to kiss Lucy. "Nay, my child, that
taking care of Lucy?"
"Were you frightened at the thunder, Lucy?"
"I was the first night, but not the second," said Lucy. "I went to
home with Lucy when any authentic news should arrive.
It was with a fluttering and sinking heart that Lucy followed her
Lucy's late fright; for she made no remark upon it, but talked to Lucy
Lucy opened it, and started with surprise. There lay the missing
pleasure of using your mother's thimble. Why, Lucy, my dear child, what
For Lucy had dropped upon her knees by her cousin's side, and, hiding
"Oh, Cousin Debby, I have been so wicked," sobbed Lucy. "You will never
In low tones, and often interrupted with sobs, Lucy confessed the
As Lucy finished her tale, she laid her head again upon her cousin's
Lucy's tears flowed fast once more, but they were very different tears.
would not have lost your dear mother's knife, and, above all, Lucy, you
Lucy; "but, somehow, they kept coming all the more."
more than any thing," said Lucy, gathering courage from her cousin's
"Well," said Cousin Deborah, encouragingly, as Lucy paused, "what then?"
continued Lucy, "and that made me resolve I would never go again,
Lucy went on to tell her cousin about her meeting and conversation
guiding me by his Spirit, Cousin Deborah?" asked Lucy, in a tone of
"And you will forgive me, won't you, cousin?" pleaded Lucy. "Indeed,
When Cousin Deborah returned, she took Lucy on her lap, and talked
with her very seriously about the sin she had committed. Lucy was very
"But they do know things somehow," Lucy ventured to say, "or how could
Lucy, "and perhaps she overheard me. I remember, too, she did not know
"I hope, my dear Lucy, you will never be so foolish again as to go to
thing, Lucy. Do you think it is a very pleasant thing for a little girl
"Yes, I know," said Lucy. "It made me tell lies about the thimble; and
"I know all that, Lucy, and that has been an excuse for you heretofore;
"Yes, Cousin Debby." Lucy Was silent for a few minutes, leaning on her
"You shall do so, Lucy. Do you not feel now that you can add some words
"You need not say so; but Lucy, can you not think of something for
"I shall not tell you what to say, Lucy. You shall write just what you
Lucy was just sitting down to write, when, glancing out of a
"Thank God, my dear Lucy, your father is well!" said Cousin Deborah,
Lucy was glad to sit down, for her limbs trembled too much to support
Tears of mingled thankfulness and grief streamed down Lucy's cheeks.
"But, cousin, it is very odd about the thimble!" said Lucy, diverted
"I do not understand it," repeated Lucy. "It certainly was lying there
[Illustration: _Lady Lucy's Secret._ 
Lucy's own part of the letter was as follows:—
"That will do very well!" said Cousin Deborah, when Lucy showed her the
her own heart that she had been so cruel to Lucy, but she never said so.
she had committed in helping Lucy to deceive, and in going with her to
better. And Cousin Deborah took care to avoid all risk, by keeping Lucy
But Lucy was very much in earnest, and under Cousin Deborah's gentle
at the Court, and continue to superintend Lucy's education. Mrs. Corbet
made her arrangements accordingly, and she remained with Lady Lucy till
Lucy never heard any news of her knife. The gipsies decamped on the
Lucy used it every day, and never again forgot to put it in its place.
old soldier, who had accompanied Lucy's father all through the war, and
came home with only one leg, to die in his native village. Lucy found
